Code's not even the right verb anymore,
right? [laughter] But I have to
express my will to my agents for 16
hours a day. Manifest. [music]
How can I have not just a single session
of Claude code or Codex or some of these
agent harnesses? How can I have more of
them? How can I do that appropriately?
The agent part is now taken for granted.
Now the claw-like entities are taken for
granted and now you can have multiple of
them and now you can have instructions
to them and now you can have
optimization over the instructions. But
there
>> [laughter]
>> I mean this is why it gets to the
psychosis is that this is like infinite
and everything is a skill issue.
Hi listeners, welcome back to No Priors.
Today I'm here with Andre Karpathy and
we have a wide-ranging conversation for
you about code agents, the future of
engineering and AI research, how more
people can contribute to research,
what's happening in robotics, his
prediction for how agents can reach out
[music] into the real world, and
education in this next age. Welcome,
Andre.
Andre, thanks for doing this. Yeah,
thank you for having me.
Uh so it's been a very exciting couple
of months in AI. Uh yeah, you could say
that.
>> I remember um walking into the office at
some point and you were like really
locked in and I was asking what you were
up to and you're like, I just I have to
code for 16 hours a day or code's not
even the right verb anymore, right? But
I have to
um express my will to my agents for 16
hours a day. Manifest
um because like there's been a jump in
capability.
Uh what's happening? Tell me about your
experience. Yeah, I kind of feel like I
was just in this perpetual I still am
often in this state of AI psychosis just
like all the time um because there was a
huge unlock in what you can achieve as a
person as an individual, right? Because
you were bottlenecked by, you know, your
typing speed and so on. But now with
these agents it really, I would say in
December is when it really just
something flipped where I kind of went
from 80/20 of like, you know, uh to like
20/80 of writing code by myself versus
just delegating to agents. And I don't
even think it's 20/80 by now. I think
it's a lot more than that. I don't think
I've typed like a line of code probably
since December basically.
>> [laughter]
>> Um which is like an extremely large
uh change. Um I was talking to it like
for example, I was talking about it to
for example my parents and so on and I
don't think like a normal person
actually realizes that this happened or
how dramatic it was. Like literally like
if you just find a random software
engineer or something like that at their
at their desk and what they're doing,
like their default workflow of, you
know, building software is completely
different as of basically December.
Uh so I'm just like in this state of
psychosis of trying to figure out like
what's possible, uh trying to push it to
the limit. How is it how can I have not
just a single session of, you know, um
Claude code or Codex or some of these
agent harnesses? How can I have more of
them? How can I do that uh
appropriately? And then how can I use
these claws? What are these claws? Uh
and uh so there's like a lot of new
things. I want to be at the forefront of
it, you know, and I'm very
antsy that I'm not at the forefront of
it and I see lots of people on Twitter
doing all kinds of things and they all
sound like really good ideas and I need
to be at the forefront or I feel
extremely nervous. And so I guess I'm
just in this psychosis of like what's
possible like because it's unexplored
fundamentally. Well, if you're nervous,
the rest of us are are nervous. We have
a we have a team that we work with at
Conviction that their setup is everybody
is like, you know, none of the engineers
write code by hand and they they're all
microphoned and they just like whisper
to their agents all the time. It's the
strangest work setting ever.
Uh and I thought they were crazy and now
I like I fully accept I was like, oh
this was the way. Like you're just ahead
of it.
Um what uh
how do you think about your own capacity
now to like explore or to do projects?
Like what is it limited by?
Yeah, what is it limited by? Uh just I
think everything like so many things
even if they don't work, I think to a
large extent you feel like it's a skill
issue. It's not that the capability is
not there. It's that you just haven't
found a way to string it together of
what's available. Like I just don't I
didn't give good enough instructions in
the agents from the file or whatever it
may be. I don't have a nice enough
memory tool that I put in there or
something like that. So it all kind of
feels like skill issue when it doesn't
work to some extent. You want to see how
you can parallelize them etc. and you
want to be Peter Steinberg basically. Uh
so Peter is famous. He has a funny photo
where he's in front of a monitor with
lots of uh like he uses Codex. So lots
of Codex agents tiling the the monitor
and they all take about 20 minutes if
you prompt them correctly and use the
high effort. And so they all take about
20 minutes. They have multiple, you
know, 10 repos checked out. And so he's
just um going between them and giving
them work. It's just like you can you
can you can move in much larger macro
actions. It's not just like here's a
line of code, here's a new function.
It's like here's a new functionality and
delegate it to agent one. Here's a new
functionality that's not going to
interfere with the other one. Give it
agent two. And then try to uh review
their work as best as you can
>> [laughter]
>> depending on how much you care about
that code. Like where are these macro
actions that I can like manipulate my
software repository by? And like another
agent is doing some like research,
another agent is writing code, another
one is coming up with a plan for some
new implementation. And so everything is
just like happens in these like macro
actions over your repository. Um and
you're just trying to become like really
good at it and develop like a muscle
memory for it is extremely um
Yeah, it's very rewarding number one
because it actually works. Uh but it's
also kind of like the new thing to
learn. So that's why hence the
psychosis.
Yeah, I I do feel like my instinct is
like
whenever I'm waiting for an agent to
complete something, the obvious thing to
do is like, well, I can do more work,
right? Like if I have access to more
tokens then like I should just
parallelize at tasks. And so that's
that's very stressful because if you
don't feel very bounded by your ability
to spend on tokens, then you know, you
are the bottleneck in the system that is
max capability. Yeah, if you're not
maximizing your subscription at least.
And
ideally for multiple agents. Like if you
run out of the quota on Codex, you
should switch to Claude or whatnot. I
don't know. Like that's what I've been
trying to do a little bit and I feel
nervous when I have subscription left
over. That just means I haven't
maximized my token throughput. So I
actually kind of experienced this when I
was a PhD student. You would feel
nervous when your GPUs are not running.
Like you have GPU capability and you're
not maximizing your the available flops
to you. But now it's not about flops,
it's about tokens.
So what is your token throughput and
what token throughput do you command? I
would actually argue that it's very
interesting that we had, you know, at
least 10 years where
in many engineering tasks people just
did they didn't feel compute bound.
Right? Um and now the entire industry
feels that now. They feel like they they
they felt resource bound uh
and now that you have this big
capability jump, you're like, oh,
actually it's not, you know, my ability
to access the computer anymore. Like I'm
I'm the binding constraint. Yeah, it's a
skill issue. Which is very empowering
cuz um yeah, cuz you could be getting
better. So that's why that's why I think
it's very addictive because there's
unlocks when you when you get better.
Where do you think it goes? Like if you
just think about like, okay, you know,
Andre's iterating and everybody else is
for 16 hours a day getting better at
using coding agents. Like what does it
look like in a year?
Of like you've reached mastery.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, what does mastery look like,
right? At the end of the year or like
two, three years, five years, 10 years,
etc.
Well, I think everyone is basically
interested in like going up the stack.
So I would say it's yeah, it's not about
a single session with your agent.
Multiple agents, how do they collaborate
and teams and so on. So everyone's
trying to figure out what that looks
like. And then I would say Claude is
also kind of an interesting direction
because it really, when I say a Claude,
I mean this like layer that kind of
takes persistence to a whole new level.
Like it's something that like keeps
looping. It's it's like um
it's not something that you are
interactively in the middle of. It kind
of like has its own little sandbox, its
own little
you know, it kind of like does stuff on
your behalf even if you're not looking
kind of thing.
Um and then also has like maybe more
sophisticated memory systems etc. that
are not yet implemented in agents. So
um Open Claude has a lot more
sophisticated memory I would say than
what you would get by default uh which
is just a memory compaction when your
context runs out, right? You think
that's the piece that resonated for more
users versus like perhaps like broader
tool access? For Open Claude? Yeah. Uh
there's like I think there's at least
five things that are really good ideas
in here. Yeah, good job, Peter. I mean
Peter has done a really amazing job. Um
I saw him recently. Uh and I talked to
him about it and I he's very humble
about it. But I think he
innovated simultaneously in like five
different ways and put it all together.
Um so for example like the soul and D
document. Like he actually really
crafted a personality that is kind of
compelling and interesting. And I feel
like a lot of the current agents they
don't get this correctly. I actually
think a Claude has a pretty good
personality. It feels like a teammate
uh and it's excited with you etc.
I would say um for example Codex is a
lot more dry um which is kind of
interesting because [laughter] in it's
true. You know, it doesn't it
and the other thing I would say is for
example with Claude I think they dialed
the sycophancy fairly well where when
Claude gives me praise, I do feel like I
slightly deserve it because sometimes I
kind of give it like not very well
formed thoughts and uh I give it an idea
that I don't think it's fully baked and
it doesn't actually react very strongly.
It's like, oh yeah, we can implement
that. But when it's a really good idea
by my own account, it does uh seem to
reward it a bit more. And so I kind of
feel like I'm trying to like earn its
praise which is really weird. And so I
do think the personality matters a lot
uh and I think a lot of the other uh
tools maybe don't appreciate it as much.
And I think in this aspect also Peter
really cares about this and so that was
correct. And then the memory system and
then uh just, you know, he's just having
fun with this um and then the the single
WhatsApp portal to all of the
automation.
>> Yeah. Is there something that you have
done personally with your claws beyond
software engineering that you think is
fun or interesting? Yeah, so in January
I had a claw I went through a period of
claw psychosis. So I built um I have a
claw basically that takes care of my
home and I call him Dobby the elf uh
claw.
Um and uh basically I used uh the agents
to find all of the smart home subsystems
of my home on the local area network
which I was kind of surprised that it
worked out of the box. Like I just told
it that I think I have Sonos at home.
Like can you try to find it? And it goes
and it did like IP scan of all of the um
basically um computers on the local area
network and and found the Sonos thing uh
the Sonos uh, system and it turned out
that there's no password protection or
anything like that. It just logged in
and it's like, "Oh, yeah, you have these
Sonos systems installed. I Let me try to
reverse engineer how it's working." It
does some web searches and it finds
like, "Okay, these are the API
endpoints." And then it's like, "Do you
want to try it?" And I'm like, "Whoa,
like you just did that." And I'm like,
"Yeah, can you try to play something in
the study?" And, uh, it does and music
comes out and I'm like, "I can't believe
I just That's crazy. That's like three
prompts. Yeah.
>> I can't believe I just typed in like,
"Can you find my Sonos?" and then
suddenly it's playing music. And it did
the same for lights. And so like it kind
of hacked in, figured out the whole
thing, uh, created APIs, created
dashboard so I could see the command,
uh, kind of center of like all of my
lights in the home. And then it was like
switching lights on and off and, you
know, so I can ask it like, "Dobby, it's
sleepy time." And when it's sleepy time
that just means all the lights go off,
etc. and like so on. So it controls all
of my lights, my HVAC, my shades, uh,
the pool and, uh, the spa and also my
security system. So I have a camera
pointed outside of the house and anytime
someone rolls in I have a Quinn, uh,
a Quinn, uh, model that looks at the
videos. So first of all there's change
detection. Right.
>> And then based on change detection it
goes to Quinn and then it actually like
tells me, um, it sends me a text to my
WhatsApp. It shows an image from the
outside and it says, "Hey, a FedEx truck
just pulled up. FedEx truck just pulled
up and you might want to check it and
you got new mail or something like
that." And Dobby just text me this. This
is really incredible. Um, so so Dobby is
in charge of the house. I text through
with it through WhatsApp, um,
and it's been like really fun to have
these macro actions that maintain my
house. I haven't like really pushed it,
uh, like way more beyond that and I
think people are doing a lot more crazy
things with it, uh, but for me even just
the home automation setup I used to use
like six apps, uh, completely different
apps and I don't have to use these apps
anymore. Like Dobby controls everything
in natural language. It's amazing. Um,
and so I think like I haven't even
pushed the paradigm fully but already
that is so helpful and so inspiring I
would say. Do you think that's
indicative of like what people want from
a user experience perspective with
software, right? Because I I don't
think, you know, it's pretty ignored
that it takes humans effort to like
learn new software, like new UI. Yeah. I
think, uh, to some extent that's right.
It's like working backwards from how
people think an AI should be because
what people have in their mind of like
what an AI is is not actually what an
LLM is by by like in the raw sense. Like
LLM is a token generator, you know, like
more tokens come out. But what they
think of is like this
this persona identity that they can tell
stuff and it remembers it, you know?
And, uh, it's just kind of an entity
behind the WhatsApp. It's like a lot
more understandable. Mhm. Uh, so I think
to some extent it's like matching the
expectations that humans already have
for what an AI should behave but under
the hood it's like a lot of technical
details go into that. And LLMs are too
raw of a primitive, uh, to actually, um,
type check as AI I think for most people
if that makes sense. Yeah. Um, I think
that's like how we understand what the
AI is and like the, um, description of
it as Dobby or some persona obviously
resonates with people. Um, I also think
that it it
uh, the unification that you did across
your six different software systems for
your home automation speaks to a
different question of like
do people really want all of the
software that we have today? Yeah.
Right? Um, because I I would argue like,
well, you have the hardware but you've
now thrown away the software or the UX
layer of it. Um, do you think that's
what people want? Yeah, I think there's
this like
there's this sense that these apps that
are on the app store for using these
smart home devices, etc. Uh, these
shouldn't even exist kind of in a
certain sense. Like shouldn't it just be
APIs and shouldn't agents be just using
it directly? And, um, wouldn't it like I
can do all kinds of home automation
stuff that, uh, in any individual app
will not be able to do, right? Um, and
an LLM can actually drive the tools and
call all the right tools and do uh, do
pretty complicated things. Um,
and so in a certain sense it does point
to this like maybe there's like an
overproduction of lots of custom bespoke
apps that shouldn't exist because agents
kind of like crumble them up and
everything should be a lot more just
like exposed API endpoints and agents
are the glue of the intelligence that
actually like tool calls all the all the
parts. Um, another example is like my
treadmill. Uh, there's an app for my
treadmill and I wanted to like keep
track of how often I do my cardio, uh,
but like I don't want to like log into
web UI and go through a flow and etc.
Like all this should just be like make
APIs available and this is kind of, you
know, going towards the agentic, um,
sort of web or like agent first, uh,
tools and all this kind of stuff. So I
think the industry just has to
reconfigure in so many ways that's like
the customer is not the human anymore.
It's like agents who are acting on
behalf of humans and this refactoring
will be will probably be substantial in
a certain sense. One way that people
sometimes push back on this is like, do
people Do you Do we expect people to
write code some of these tools? Do we
expect normal people to do this kind of
stuff that I described? Mhm. But I think
to some extent
this is just, you know, technology as it
exists today and right now there is some
write coding and I'm actually watching
it and I'm working with the system but I
kind of feel like this kind of stuff
that I just talked about this should be
free like in a year or two or three.
There's no write coding involved. This
is trivial. This is table stakes. This
is like any AI, even the open source
models, etc. can like do this. You
should be able to translate it from a
less technical humans intent very easily
to this outcome.
>> Yeah. Today it's write coding and it's
involved and not many people are going
to do it but
>> And you still have to make some design
decisions, right? We were talking about
like we take frames for example. Yeah.
Yeah. But I kind of feel like this will
just, uh, start to the barrier will just
come down and it's just ephemeral
software on your behalf and some kind of
like claw is handling all the details
for you but you're not involved. Claw
has a Claw has a machine and it will
figure it out and it's just presenting
you UIs and you're like saying stuff,
you know? Mhm.
Why haven't you, um, I guess like pushed
the boundaries of what you can do
personally with claws? Like is it, you
know, you're focusing on more important
projects, auto research, etc. or, uh,
you're climbing the hill to mastery or
something else, right? Yeah, I just feel
like I'm so distracted by everything so
I spend I [laughter] spend like a week
on the claw stuff and I I have more to
do almost, um,
but I will say that, um,
>> It's like Jensen told us we're all just
busier, unfortunately.
>> Uh, I didn't really take advantage of a
lot of like email and calendar and all
this other stuff and I didn't really
have access cuz I'm still a little bit
like suspicious and it's still very new
and rough around the edges. So I didn't
want to give it like full access to my
digital life yet and part of it is just
the security, privacy and uh, just being
very cautious in that in that realm.
And, um, so some of it is like held back
by that I would say. Yeah, maybe that's
like the dominant dominant feature but
some of it is also just I feel so
distracted because I feel like I had a
week of claw and then other stuff is
happening and What was the, um, I mean
you've talked about like being able to
train or at least optimize a uh, a a
model as a task you want to see agents
do for a long time. Like what was the
motivation behind auto research? Auto
research, yeah. So I think like
I had a tweet earlier where I kind of
like said something along the lines of
to get the most out of the tools that
have become available now you have to
remove yourself as the as the
bottleneck. You can't be there to prompt
the next thing. You're You need to take
yourself outside. Um, you have to
arrange things such that they're
completely autonomous. And the more you
you know, how can you maximize your
token throughput and not be in the loop?
This is the this is the goal. And so
I kind of mentioned that the the name of
the game now is to increase your
leverage. Uh, I put in just very few
tokens just once in a while and a huge
amount of stuff happens on my behalf.
And so auto research like I tweeted that
and I think people liked it and whatnot
but it
they haven't like maybe worked through
like the implications of that and for me
auto research is an example of like an
implication of that. Where it's like I
don't want to be like the researcher in
loop like looking at results, etc. Like
I'm I'm holding the system back. So the
question is how do I refactor all the
abstractions so that I'm not I have to
arrange it once and hit go. The name of
the game is how can you get more agents
running for longer periods of time
without your involvement doing stuff on
your behalf? And auto research is just,
yeah, here's an objective, here's a
metric, here's your boundaries of what
you can and cannot do.
And go.
And, uh, yeah, it worked.
>> at its effectiveness. Yeah, I I didn't
expect, uh, it to work because so I have
the project data chat, um,
and fundamentally like I think a lot of
people are very confused with my
obsession for like training GPT-2 models
and so on. But for me, uh, training GPT
models and so on is just a little
harness, a little playground for
training LLMs. And fundamentally what
I'm more interested in is like this idea
of recursive self-improvement and to
what extent you can actually have LLMs
improving LLMs because I think all the
frontier labs this is like the thing
Mhm. uh, for obvious reasons and they're
all trying to recursively self-improve
roughly speaking. And so for me this is
kind of like, um, a little playpen of
that. Um, and I guess I like tuned Nan
Chat already quite a bit by hand in the
good old fashion way that I'm used to.
Like I'm a researcher. I've done this
for like, you know, two decades. I have
some amount of like What is the opposite
of hubris? Uh, yeah. [laughter]
Earned confidence? Okay. I have like two
decades of like, "Oh, I've trained this
model like thousands of times. I've
like,
um, so I've done a bunch of experiments.
I've done hyperparameter tuning. I've
done all the things I'm very used to and
I've done for two decades. Yeah. And
I've gotten to a certain point and I
thought it was like fairly well tuned
and then I let auto research go for like
overnight and it came back with like
tunings that I didn't see. Mhm. And
yeah, I did forget like the weight decay
on the value embeddings and my Adam
betas were not sufficiently tuned and
these things just jointly interact. So
like once you tune one thing the other
things have to potentially change too.
You know, I shouldn't be a bottleneck. I
shouldn't be running these
hyperparameter optimizations. I
shouldn't be looking at the results.
There's objective criteria in this case.
Uh, so you just let you just have to
arrange it so that it can just go
forever. So that's a single sort of
version of auto research of like a
single loop trying to improve. And I was
surprised that it, um, it found these
things that I
you know, the repo was already fairly
well tuned and still found something.
And that's just a single it's a single
loop. Like these frontier labs they have
GPU clusters of tens of thousands of
them.
And so it's very easy to imagine how you
would basically get a lot of this
automation on, um, smaller models. And
fundamentally everything around like
frontier level intelligence is about
extrapolation and scaling loss. And so
you basically do a ton of the
exploration on the smaller models and
then you try to, um, extrapolate out. So
you're saying our research efforts are
going to get more efficient. Like we're
going to have better direction for when
we scale as well if we can do this
experimentation better.
>> Yeah, I would say that like the most
interesting project and probably what
the frontier labs are working on is uh,
Mhm. Yeah. you know, you experiment on
the smaller models. You try to make it
as autonomous as possible. Remove
researchers
>> [laughter]
>> from the loop. They have way too much
What is the What is the opposite
of too much confidence? Yeah, yeah, they
don't know. They shouldn't be touching
any of this really. And so you have to
like rewrite the whole thing because
right now, I mean certainly they can
contribute ideas. But okay, they
shouldn't actually be enacting these
ideas. There is a queue of ideas and
there's maybe an automated scientist
that comes up with ideas based on all
the archive papers and GitHub repos and
it funnels ideas in or researchers can
contribute ideas, but it's a single
queue and there is workers that pull
items and they try them out. And
whatever works just gets sort of put on
the feature branch and maybe some people
like
monitor the feature branch and merge to
the main branch sometimes. So
yeah, just removing humans from all the
processes and automating as much as
possible and getting high token tokens
per second throughputs and it does
require rethinking of all the
abstractions
and everything has to be reshuffled. So
yeah, I think it's very exciting. If we
take one more recursive step here,
when is the model going to write a
better program MD than you?
Yeah.
Also program MD is like
>> loop. Yeah, exactly.
>> Yeah. So program MD is my crappy attempt
at describing like how the auto
researcher should work. Like oh, do this
then do that and that and then try these
kinds of ideas and then here's maybe
some ideas like look at architecture,
look at optimizer, etc. But I just came
up with with this in markdown, right?
>> Mhm.
And so
yeah, exactly.
You want some kind of an auto research
loop maybe that looks for
You can imagine that different program
that MDs would
would give you different progress. So
you basically every research
organization is described by program MD.
A research organization is a set of
markdown files that describe all the
roles and how the whole thing connects.
And you can imagine having a better
research organization. So maybe they do
fewer stand-ups in the morning because
they're useless. And this is all just
code, right?
And so you can So one organization can
have fewer stand-ups, one organization
can have more.
One organization can be very
risk-taking, one organization can be
less. As you can definitely imagine that
you have multiple research orgs
and then they all have code. And once
you have code, then you can imagine
tuning the code. So 100% there's like
the metal layer of it. Uh
Did you see my text about my contest
idea? My contest idea was
like
let people write different program MDs,
right? And and so for same hardware,
where do you get most improvement?
>> Oh, I see. And then you can take all
that data and then give it to the model
and say write a better program MD.
>> Yes, yes.
Yeah, exactly.
>> We're going to get something better.
Like there's no way we don't, right?
>> 100% look at
where the improvements came from and
like can I change the program MD such
that more of these kinds of things would
be done or like things that didn't work
except
you can 100% imagine doing that. So I
think this is a great idea, but it's
like
you know, I think like you can sort of
go one step at a time where you sort of
have one process and then second process
and then the next process and these are
all layers of an onion.
Like the LLM sort of part is now taken
for granted. The agent part is now taken
for granted. Now the claw-like entities
are taken for granted and now you can
have multiple of them and now you can
have instructions to them and now you
can have optimization over the
instructions and it's just like a little
too much, you know, but I mean this is
why it gets to the psychosis is that
this is like infinite and everything is
scale issue and that's why I feel like
Yeah, that's just coming back to This is
why it's so insane. Okay, well, if
[laughter] we're we're just trying to
like diagnose the current moment and
what is a relevant skill right now, what
do you like what do you think is the
implication that this
that this is the loop we should be
trying to achieve in different areas and
then it works, right? Like you know,
remove
create the metric or create the ability
for agents to continue working on it
without you. Do we still have
performance engineering? Like what
Yeah, I mean so there's a few caveats
that I would put on top of the LLM
psychosis. So number one,
this is extremely well suited to
anything that has objective metrics that
are easy to evaluate. So for example,
like writing kernels for more efficient
CUDA,
you know, code for various parts of the
model, etc. are a perfect fit because
you have inefficient code and then you
want efficient code that has the exact
same behavior but it's much faster.
Perfect fit. So a lot of things like
like are perfect fit for auto research,
but many things will not be. And so they
it's just if you can't evaluate then you
can't auto research it, right?
So that's like caveat number one. And
then maybe caveat number two I would say
is you know, we're we're kind of talking
about the next steps and we kind of see
what the next steps are, but
fundamentally the the whole thing still
doesn't it still kind of like bursting
at the seams a little bit and there's
cracks and it doesn't fully work and if
you kind of try to go too far ahead, the
whole thing is actually net not useful
if that makes sense.
Because these models like still are not,
you know, they've improved a lot, but
they're still are like rough around the
edges is maybe the way I would describe
it. I simultaneously feel like I'm
talking to an extremely brilliant PhD
student who's been like a systems
programmer for their entire life and a
10-year-old. And it's so weird because
humans like there's like I feel like
they're a lot more coupled like you have
to you know, um Yes, you wouldn't you
wouldn't encounter that combination.
>> This jaggedness is really strange and
humans have a lot less of that kind of
jaggedness, although they definitely
have some.
>> [laughter]
>> But humans have a lot more jaggedness.
Uh sorry, the agents have a lot more
jaggedness where
sometimes like
you know, I ask for functionality and it
like comes back with something that's
just like totally wrong and then we get
into loops that are totally wrong and
then I'm just I get so frustrated with
the agents all the time still because
you feel the power of it,
but you also there's still like
it does not say statistical things once
in a while for me as well. I get very
annoyed [clears throat] when
I feel like the agent wasted a lot of
compute on something it should have
recognized was an obvious problem. Yeah.
I think like some of the bigger things
is like maybe what's under underneath it
if I could hypothesize is fundamentally
these models are trained via
reinforcement learning. So they're
actually struggling with the exact same
thing we just talked about which is the
labs can improve the models in anything
that is verifiable or that
[clears throat] has rewards. So did you
write the program correctly and does it
you do you the unit tests check out? Yes
or no. But some of the things where
they're struggling is like for example,
I think they have a tough time with like
nuance of maybe what I what I had in
mind or what I intended and when to ask
clarifying questions.
Um
or like what I Yeah, it's just um
anything that feels softer is like
worse. And so you're kind of like you're
either on rails and you're part of the
super intelligence circuits or you're
not on rails and you're outside of the
verifiable domains and suddenly
everything kind of just like meanders.
Like maybe another way to put it is if
you go to if today if you go to like
state-of-the-art model, ChatGPT and you
ask it tell me a joke, um
do you know what joke you're going to
get? There's the joke. The joke? I do
feel I I I can't tell you like the you
know, standard form of it, but I do feel
like ChatGPT has like three jokes.
>> Yeah, yeah. So the the joke that
apparently all the LLMs like love the
most is why do scientists not trust
atoms? Okay. Because they make
everything up. Okay.
>> They make everything up.
So this is still
>> emerge? So this is the joke you would
get like three or four years ago and
this is the joke you still get today.
Okay.
>> So even though the models have improved
tremendously and if you give them an
agentic task, they will just go for
hours and move mountains for you. And
then you ask for like a joke and it has
a stupid joke. It's crappy joke from
five years ago and it's because it's
outside of the it's outside of the RL.
It's outside of the reinforcement
learning. It's outside of what's being
improved. It's like and it's part of the
jaggedness of like shouldn't you expect
models as they get better to also have
like better jokes or more diversity of
them or it's just it's not being
optimized and stuck. Do you
think that that implies that we are not
seeing like generalization in the sense
of like broader intelligence of joke
smartness being attached to code
smartness? Yeah, I think there's some
decoupling where some things are
verifiable and some things are not and
some things are optimized for
arbitrarily by the labs depending on
like what data went in and some things
are not and um
and
>> But I mean the the premise there's a you
know, premise from some research groups
that if you're smarter at code
generation or in these verifiable
fields, you should be better at
everything. And like the
the joke situation suggests that that's
not happening at all.
Okay.
>> Yeah, I don't think that's happening. I
think
I think maybe we're seeing like a little
bit of that, but not like a satisfying
amount.
>> Yeah, that jaggedness exists in humans.
You [laughter] can be very very good at
math
and still tell really bad jokes.
>> Yeah, that's true. Yeah, but it just it
still means that we're not getting like
the story is that we're getting a lot of
the intelligence and capabilities in all
the domains of society like for free as
we get better and better models and
that's not like exactly fundamentally
what's going on and there's some blind
spots and some things are not being
optimized for and this is all clustered
up in these neural net opaque models,
right? So you're either on rails of what
it was trained for and everything is
like you're going at speed of light or
you're not.
And so it's the jaggedness. So
um
So that's why I think like even though
the the progression is obvious what
should happen, you can't let it fully go
there yet because it doesn't
fully work or it's a scale issue and we
just haven't like figured out how to use
it. So you know, it's hard to tell. Can
I ask a somewhat blasphemous question
which is like if this jaggedness is
persisting
and it's all rolled up in a
at least monolithic interface, right?
But you know, single model.
Does that make sense or do you should
should it be unbundled into things that
are can be optimized and improved
against different domains of
intelligence? Like unbundling the models
into multiple experts in different
areas, etc. More directly. Yeah. Um
Instead of just MOE that we have no
exposure to because that can be like
confusing as a user from the outside
which is like why is it so good at this,
but not at this other thing? Yeah, I
think currently my impression is the
labs are trying to have a single sort of
like monoculture of a model that is
arbitrarily intelligent in all these
different domains and they just stuff it
into the parameters. I do think that we
will we I do think we should expect more
speciation in the
intelligences.
Um
like, you know, the animal kingdom is
extremely diverse in the brains that
exist and there's lots of different
niches of of nature and some animals
have overdeveloped visual cortex or
other part kind of parts and I think we
we should be able to see more speciation
and um you don't need like this oracle
that knows everything. You can speciate
it and then you put it on a specific
task and we should be seeing some of
that because you should be able to have
like much smaller models that still have
the cognitive core like they're still
competent but then they specialize and
then um and then they they can become
more efficient in terms of latency or
throughput on
specific tasks that you really care
about. Like if you're a mathematician
working in Lean, I saw for example
there's a few releases that really like
target that as a domain. Um
uh so there's a probably going to be a
few examples like that where the
unbundling kind of makes sense. One
question I have is whether or not the
capacity constraint on available compute
infrastructure Mhm. drives more of this
because efficiency Yeah. actually
matters more. Yeah.
Your if you
financing aside, though financing's
involved in all of this. If you have
access to full compute for anything you
do like even one single model, right?
But if you actually feel pressure where
you're like I can't serve
>> Mhm. um
model of massive size for every use
case.
>> Mhm. Like do you think that leads to any
speciation? Does that question make
sense to you? The question makes sense
and I guess like what I'm what I'm what
I what I'm struggling with is I don't
think we've seen too much speciation
just yet, right? No. Uh we're seeing a
monoculture of models. Yeah. So um And
there's like clearly pressure for like
make a good code model, put it back in
the main, merge again. Yeah.
>> Um
even though there already is pressure on
the models. Mhm. I guess perhaps I I
feel like there's a lot of very
short-term supply crunch and like maybe
that causes more speciation now.
Yeah, I think fundamentally like the
the the labs are serving a model and
they don't really know what the end user
is going to be asking about. So maybe
that's like some part of it because they
kind of have to multitask over all the
possible things they could be asked. But
I think if you're coming to a business
and maybe partnering on some specific
problems you care about then maybe you
would see that there. Um or there would
be some very high-value applications
that are like more niche. Um
But but I think right now they're kind
of like going after the totality of
what's available. I don't think that the
science of manipulating the brains is
like fully developed yet partly. What do
you mean manipulating? So like so
fine-tuning without losing capabilities
as an example. And I we don't have these
primitives for actually like working
with the intelligences in ways other
than just context windows. Our context
windows kind of just just work and it's
very cheap to manipulate etc. And this
is how we're getting some of the
customization etc. Uh but I think if it
was I think it's a it's a bit more of a
developing science of how you like more
deeply adjust the models, how you have
continual learning maybe or how you
um how you fine-tune in a certain area,
how you get better in a certain area or
like how you actually touch the weights
not just the context windows. And so
it's a lot more
tricky I would say to touch the weights
than just the context windows uh because
you're actually fundamentally changing
the full model and potentially its
intelligence. And so um
so maybe it's just like not a fully
developed science if that makes sense of
speciation. And it also has to be like
cheap enough Yeah. for that speciation
to be worthwhile in these given
>> contexts. Can I ask a question about
like an extension to auto research that
you described in terms of open ground?
You say okay, well, you know, we have
this thing. Um we need more
collaboration surface around it
essentially for people to contribute
to research overall. Can you talk about
that?
>> Yeah, so we talked about auto research
has a single thread of like I'm going to
try stuff in a loop but fundamentally
the parallelization of this is like the
interesting component.
And I guess I was trying to like play
around with a few ideas but I don't have
anything that like clicks as simply as
like I don't have something I'm like
super happy with just yet but it's
something I'm like working on the side
when I'm not working on my claw.
Um
so I think like one issue is if you have
a bunch of nodes
of parallelization available to then
it's very easy to just have multiple
auto researchers talking through a
a common system or something like that.
What I was more interested in is how you
can have an untrusted pool of workers
out there on the internet. Mhm. So for
example in auto research
you're just trying to find um
the piece of code that trains a model to
a very low validation loss.
If anyone gives you a candidate commit,
it's very easy to verify that that
commit is correct is good. Like they
someone could claim from the internet
that this piece of code will optimize
much better and give you much better
performance. You could just check. Yeah.
But probably a lot of work goes into
that checking.
But fundamentally they could lie and
etc. So you're basically dealing with a
similar kind of it's almost actually
like looks a little bit like my my
designs that incorporate an untrusted
pool of workers
actually look a little bit more like a
blockchain a little bit uh because
instead of blocks you have commits and
these commits can build on each other
and they contain like changes to the
code as you're improving it. Um and uh
the proof of work is basically doing
tons of experimentation to find the
commits that work.
Um and that's hard
and then the reward is just being on the
leaderboard right now. There's no
monetary reward whatsoever.
Uh but I don't want to push the analogy
too far but it fundamentally has this
issue where
you a huge amount of search goes into it
but it's very cheap to verify that a
candidate solution is indeed good
because you can just train a single you
know, someone had to try 10,000 ideas
but
you just have to check that the thing
that they produced actually works
because the 99,000 of them didn't work,
you know? Um and so basically long story
short is like you have to come up with a
system where an untrusted pool of
workers can collaborate with a trusted
pool of workers that do the
verification.
And the whole thing is kind of like
asynchronous and works and
and so on and it's it's like safe from a
security perspective because if anyone
sends you arbitrary code and you're
going to run it, that is very sketchy
and dodgy. So um
but fundamentally it should be totally
possible. So you're familiar with
projects like SETI@home and
Folding@home. All of these problems have
a similar kind of setup. So Folding@home
you're folding a protein
and it's very hard to find a
configuration that is low energy. But if
someone finds a configuration that they
value to be low energy, that's perfect.
You can just use it. You can easily
verify it.
So a lot of things have this property
that you know, very expensive to come up
with but very cheap to verify. And so in
all those cases things like Folding@home
or SETI@home or auto research at home
will be good fits. And so um long story
short
a swarm of agents on the internet could
collaborate to improve LLMs and could
potentially even like run circles around
frontier labs. Like who knows, you know?
Um
yeah, like maybe that's even possible.
Like frontier labs have a huge amount of
trusted compute but the earth is much
bigger and has huge amount of untrusted
compute. But if you put systems in check
systems in place that you know, deal
with this then maybe it is possible that
the swarm out there could could come up
with with better with better solutions.
And people kind of like contribute
cycles um
to to a thing that they care about. And
so sorry to so the last thought is
uh lots of companies or whatnot they
could maybe have like their own things
that they care about and you if you have
compute capacity you could contribute to
different kind of auto research tracks.
Like maybe you care about certain you
know, like you care about like cancer or
something like that of certain type. You
don't have to just donate money to an
institution. You actually could like
purchase compute and then you could join
the auto research swarm for that
project, you know? Uh so if everything
is rebundled into auto researchers then
compute becomes the thing that you're
contributing to the pool. Yeah. That's
very inspiring and it's also
interesting. Like I don't I don't know
how far this goes but it is interesting
that at least some audience of people
you know, here in Silicon Valley or
lining up at you know, retail stores in
China have discovered that like having
access to personal compute is
interesting again.
>> Yeah. Right? So maybe they're really
motivated to do that for their claws and
then they can contribute to auto
research.
>> almost like dollars the thing everyone
cares about but is flop the thing that
actually everyone cares about in the
future? Like is there going to be like a
flipening almost of like what's the
thing that you care about? Like right
now for example it's really hard to get
compute even if you have money. Yeah.
So actually it almost seems like the
flop is like dominant
>> [laughter]
>> in a certain sense. Um
Yeah, so so maybe that's kind of like
that. Kind of like that. Like how much
how many flops do you control instead of
like what wealth you control? I don't
actually think that's true but it's kind
of interesting to think about. The last
thing you released was like a little bit
of jobs data analysis. Is that right?
What
and might have touched a nerve even
though you're just like visualizing some
public data.
>> Yeah. Uh what was you know, what were
you curious about? Yeah, I guess I was
curious to um
I mean everyone is like really it's
everyone is really thinking about the
impacts of AI on the job market and
what's going to look like. So I was just
interested to take a look like what does
the job market look like? Where are the
different roles um
and how many people are in different
professions? And I was like really just
interested to like look through
the individual cases and try to think
myself about like you know, with these
AIs and how they're likely to evolve
like
are these going to be tools that people
are using? Are these going to be
displacing tools for these professions?
And like what are the current
professions and how are they going to
change? Are they going to grow or uh
adjust to a large extent or like what
could be new professions? So it's really
just like a way to fuel my own chain of
thought about the industry I suppose.
Mhm. Um and so
yeah, the jobs data basically is just a
Bureau of Labor Statistics. They
actually have um percent outlook for
each profession about how much it's
expected to grow over the next I think
almost a decade. Uh yeah, I think it's a
decade but it was made in 2024. Mhm. We
need a lot of health care workers. Yeah.
So so they've already made those
projections and I'm not sure actually
100% what the methodology was that they
they put into their projections. Um I
guess I was interested to color things
by like if people think that what's like
primarily being
developed now is this kind of like more
digital AI
that is kind of like almost like these
ghosts or spirit entities that can like
interact in the digital world and
manipulate a lot of like digital
information and they currently don't
really have a physical embodiment or
presence. And the physical stuff is
probably going to go slightly slower
because you're manipulating atoms. So
flipping flipping bits and
and the ability to copy-paste digital
information is like makes everything a
million times faster than accelerating
matter, you know, so
Um so energetically, I just think we're
going to see a huge amount of activity
in the digital space, huge amount of
rewriting, huge amount of activity,
boiling soup. And I think the we're
going to see something that in the
digital space goes at the speed of light
compared to I think what's going to
happen in the physical world to some
extent. If it would be the
extrapolation. And so I think like
>> [clears throat]
>> there's currently kind of like I think
overhang where there can be like a lot
of unhubbling almost potentially of like
a lot of digital information processing
that used to be done by computers and
people. And now with AIs there's like a
third kind of manipulator of digital
information. There's going to be a lot
of refactoring in those in those
disciplines.
Um but the physical world is actually
going to be like I think
behind that by some amount of time. And
so I think what's really fascinating to
me is like
So that's why I was highlighting the the
professions that fundamentally
manipulate digital information. This is
work you could do from your home, etc.
Uh because I feel like those will be
like things will change. And it doesn't
mean that there's going to be less of
those jobs or more of those jobs because
it does has to do with like demand
elasticity and many other factors. But
things will change in these professions
because of these new tools and um
because of this upgrade to the nervous
system of the human superorganism
>> [laughter]
>> if you want to think about it that way.
Given the look you had at the data, do
you have either any observations or um
uh guidance for people facing the job
market or thinking about what to study
now or what skills to develop? I mean we
can all go get like I'm very thankful
that I have to like meet people for my
job right now.
>> Yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, more physical. Yeah. Could you do
your work from home though? I could.
I think there are relationship parts of
it that are hard, but most of it I
could. Yeah. I think it's really hard to
tell because again like the job market
is extremely diverse. I think the
answers will probably vary, but uh to a
large extent like these tools are
extremely new, extremely powerful. And
so just being you know, just trying to
keep up with it is like the first thing.
Um
and um
yeah, because I think a lot of people
kind of like dismiss it or Or they're
afraid of it. Or they're afraid of it,
etc. As which is totally understandable,
of course. Yeah, I think like um
it's fundamentally an empowering tool at
the moment. Um and these jobs are
bundles of tasks. And some of these
tasks can go a lot faster. And so people
should think of it as primarily a tool
that it is right now.
Um and I think the long-term future of
that is uncertain. Yeah, it's kind of
really hard to forecast, to be honest.
And like I'm not professionally like
doing that really. And I think this is a
job of like economists to do properly.
You are an engineer though. And like one
thing I thought was interesting is that
like
the demand for engineering jobs
is continuing to increase.
>> Yeah. Um I I can't tell if that's like a
temporary phenomenon. I'm not sure how I
feel about it. Yeah, do you know? Yeah,
that's like the demand elasticity almost
like uh software was scarce, right? And
so the reason we don't have more demand
for software is just there's its
scarcity and it's too expensive.
>> So if the barrier comes down, then
actually you have the Jevons paradox,
which is like you know, you actually the
demand for software actually goes up.
It's cheaper and there's more More
powerful, yeah. The the classical
example of this always is the ATMs and
the bank tellers
uh because there was a lot of like fear
that um ATMs and computers basically uh
would displace tellers. But what
happened is they made like the cost of
operation of
of a bank branch much cheaper. And so
there are more bank branches, so there
are more tellers. It's like the
canonical example people cite. Uh but
basically it's just Jevons paradox. Like
something becomes cheaper, so there's
a lot of unlocked demand for it. Uh so I
do think that that's probably I do have
like cautiously optimistic view of this
in software engineering
where I do think um it does seem to me
like the demand for software will be
extremely large. Um and it's just become
a lot cheaper. And um
so I do think that for quite some time
um
it's very hard to forecast, but it does
seem to me like right now at least
locally there's going to be more demand
for software.
Um because software is amazing. It's
like you know, digital information
processing. You're not forced to use
like arbitrary tools that were given to
you. They're imperfect in various ways.
You're not forced to subscribe to what
exists. Code is now ephemeral and it can
change and it can be modified.
Um
and so I think there's going to be a lot
of activity in the digital space to like
rewire everything in a certain sense.
And I think it's going to create a lot
of demand for for this kind of stuff. I
think long-term um yeah, obviously even
with auto research like OpenAI or or you
know, Anthropic or these other labs like
they're employing what like a thousand
something researchers, right?
>> Mhm. These researchers are basically
like glorified auto like you know.
>> [laughter]
>> They're like automating themselves away
like actively and this is like the thing
they're all trying to do. Yeah. I
like I went around um Some of those
researchers also fear that feel the
psychosis, right? Because they can it's
working, right? And and so they're like
it's over for me, too. I did spend a
bunch of time going around OpenAI and I
was like, you guys realize if we're
successful like we're all out of job
like
like this is just going to we're just
building automation for Sam or something
like that. Like I or the board or I'm
not sure, but like uh they're just
building all this automation for yeah,
the board or the CEO or something like
that. And we're all out of our job and
maybe
contributing on the side. And so
yeah, it's kind of like unnerving from
that perspective. Is it okay if I ask
you Noam's question? Mhm. You know, you
could be doing that, right? Auto
researching with a lot of compute scale
and a bunch of colleagues at one of the
frontier [clears throat] labs. Like why
not? Well, I was there for a while,
right? Like and I did reenter. So to
some extent I agree and I think that
there are many ways to slice this
question. It's very loaded question a
little bit. Um I will say that I feel
very good about like what people can
contribute and their impact outside of
the frontier labs, obviously. Not in the
industry, but also in like more like
ecosystem level roles. Um so your role
for example is more like ecosystem
level. My role currently is also kind of
more on ecosystem level. And I feel very
good about like impact that people can
have in those kinds of roles. I think
conversely there's there are definite
problems in my mind for um uh for
basically aligning yourself way too much
with the frontier labs, too. So
fundamentally I mean you're you have a
huge amount of financial incentive to uh
with these frontier labs. And by your
own admission, the uh the AIs are going
to like really change humanity and
society in very dramatic ways. And here
you are basically like building the
technology and benefiting from it like
it and being like very allied to it
through financial means. Like this was
the conundrum that was in at the heart
of you know, how OpenAI was started in
the beginning. Like this was the
conundrum that we were trying to solve.
Mhm. Um and so you know, that
so it's kind of um It's still not
resolved.
>> is still not like fully resolved. So
that's number one. You're you're not a
completely free agent and you can't
actually like be part of that
conversation in a fully autonomous um
free way. Like if you're inside one of
the frontier labs. Like there's some
things that you can't say. Uh and
conversely there are some things that
the organization wants you to say. And
you know, they're not going to twist
your arm, but
you feel the pressure of like what you
should be saying,
you know, cuz like obviously
>> [laughter]
>> otherwise it's like really awkward
conversations,
uh strange side eyes, like what are you
doing, you know, like so you can't like
really be an independent agent. And I I
feel like a bit more a lot like aligned
with humanity in a certain sense outside
of the frontier lab because
I don't I'm not subject to those
pressures almost, right? And I can say
whatever I want or Yeah, I would say in
the frontier labs like um
you can have like
impact there of course as well. So
but there's many researchers and maybe
you're one of them, maybe your ideas are
really good, etc. Maybe there's a lot of
decision-making to do and you want to be
in a position where you are in the room
with those conversations when they come
up. I do think that currently the stakes
are like overall fairly low and so
everything is kind of like nice. But
ultimately in the end of the day like
when the stakes are really high, etc. If
you're an employee at an organization, I
don't actually know how much sway you're
going to have on your organization what
it's going to do. Like fundamentally at
the end of the day um
uh it's uh you're not like really in
charge. Like you're in the room and
you're contributing ideas, but you're
not like really in charge of that entity
that you're that you're part of. So
those are like some sources of
misalignment, I think to some extent. I
will say that like in one way I do agree
a lot with that sentiment that um I do
feel like in the
like the labs for better or worse
they're opaque and a lot of work is
there. And they're kind of like at the
edge of capability and what's possible.
And they're working on what's coming
down the line. And I think if you're
outside of that frontier lab, your your
judgment fundamentally will start to
drift because you're not part of the
you know,
what's coming down the line. And so I
feel like my judgment will inevitably
start to drift as well. And I won't
actually have an understanding of how
these systems actually work under the
hood. That's an opaque system.
I won't have a a good understanding of
how it's going to develop and etc. And
so I do think that in that sense I agree
and something I'm nervous about. I think
it's worth basically
being in touch with what's actually
happening and actually being in a
frontier lab. And if if some of the
frontier labs would have me come for you
know, some amount of time and do really
good work for them and then maybe come
and hang out.
>> looking for a job. This is super
exciting. [laughter]
Then I think that's maybe a good setup
because I kind of feel like it's kind of
um
you know,
maybe that's like one way Mhm. uh to to
actually be connected to what's actually
happening, but also not feel like you're
necessarily fully controlled by Yeah. by
those entities. So I think
honestly in my mind like
Noam can probably get do extremely good
work at at OAI, but also I think his
most impactful work could very well be
outside of OpenAI. Noam, that's a call
to be an independent researcher with
auto [laughter] research.
Yeah, there's many things to do on the
outside and it's it's a
and I think ultimately I think the ideal
solution maybe is like yeah, going back
and forth
or um
yeah, and I think fundamentally you can
have a really amazing impact in both
places. So very complicated I don't
know. Like it's a very loaded question a
little bit, but I mean I joined the
frontier lab and I'm outside. And then
maybe in the future I'll want to join
again. And I think um
uh that's kind of like how I look at it.
One question related to what visibility
to does the world or the AI ecosystem
have into
the frontier is like how how close open
source is to the frontier. Mhm. Um and
how sustainable that is. I I think Yeah.
I think it is quite surprising. The
entire sequence of events actually from
like having a handful of Chinese models
and global models and I think people are
going to continue releasing here in the
near term that are closer than much of
the industry anticipated from a
capability [clears throat] perspective.
>> Yeah. Um I don't know if you're
surprised by that, but you're a
long-term contributor to open source.
Like what's your prediction here? Yeah,
so roughly speaking basically the
the closed models are ahead, but like
people are monitoring the number of
months that sort of like open-source
models are behind. Um And started with
there's nothing and then it went to 18
months. Now it's
>> Yeah, but then convergence, right? So
then maybe they're behind by like, what
is the latest? Maybe like 8 months, 6
months, 8 months kind of thing right
now. Yeah, I'm a huge fan of
open-source, obviously. So for example,
in operating systems, you have like
closed source, like, you know, Windows
and Mac OS, these are large software
projects, kind of like what LLMs are
going to become, and there's Linux. Mhm.
But Linux is very easy. Like, actually
Linux is extremely successful project.
It runs on the vast majority of
computers. Like, last time I checked,
was it like 60% or something like from
Linux? Um and that's because there is a
need in the industry to have a common
open platform that everyone feels uh
sort of safe using. I would say like the
industry has always felt a demand for
that kind of a project to exist. Mhm.
>> And I think the same is true now. And
that's why businesses actually want
there's demand for this kind of a um a
thing to exist. The big difference is
that everything is capital uh there's a
lot of capex that goes into this.
>> Um so I think that's where things like
fall apart a little bit, make it a bit
harder to to compete in certain senses.
Uh I I do think that the current models
are very good. The other thing that I
think is like really interesting is that
for the vast majority of like consumer
use cases and things like that, even
like turn open-source models are
actually quite good, I would say. And I
think like if you go forward like more
uh more years, it does seem to me like a
huge amount of like simple use cases are
going to be well covered and actually
even run locally. Mhm. Um
but there's going to be always like some
demand for like frontier intelligence
and that that can actually be extremely
large uh piece of the pie. But it could
be that the frontier the need for
frontier intelligence is going to be
like, you know, Nobel Prize kind of
work. Mhm.
>> let's move Linux from C to Rust. It's
going to be like bigger projects, you
know, like scoped in that kind of a way,
and there's going to be maybe more um
and maybe that's where a lot of the
frontier closed intelligence is where
going to are going to be interacting
with. And open-source kind of like going
to eat through a lot of the more basic
use cases or something like that. You
know, at some point what is frontier
today is going to be, you know, probably
later this year what's frontier today in
terms of what I'm using right now from
the closed labs uh might be open-source
and that's going to be doing a lot of
work. So I kind of expect that this
dynamic will actually basically
continue. Like we'll have frontier labs
that have closed um AIs that are kind of
like these oracles, and then we'll have
open-source kind of like behind with
some amount of months. And I kind of
expect that to uh to continue. And I
actually think that's like a pretty
pretty good setup uh overall. Um
because I I'm a little bit hesitant of
having um I don't actually think it's
like structurally I think there's some
systemic risk attached to just having
intelligence that are closed and that's
like that's it. Mhm. And I think that
that's a, you know, centralization has a
very poor track record in my view uh in
in the past and has um
>> You mean like in political or economic
systems in in general.
>> [laughter]
>> Exactly. I think there's like a lot of
like pretty
>> an Eastern European. A lot of pretty bad
precedents, so I want there to be a
thing that is maybe not at the edge of
capability because it's new and
unexplored, etc. But I want there to be
a thing that's behind and that uh is
kind of like a common working space for
intelligences that the entire industry
has access to. Yeah, that seems to me
like a pretty decent power balance for
the industry. Yeah. I also think there's
just like there are many problems to
solve, right? Like if you keep advancing
intelligence from the frontier, we can
do new things and there are a lot of
like very big problems for humanity,
right? And so like it seems that that
will continue to be a very expensive
game. And so I want to like root for
labs that are doing that because there
are problems we cannot solve without
continuing to advance the models in a
very expensive way. And yet, as you
point out, like if what we have
today as frontier is open, that's a lot
of capability, right? And and so I I I
think, you know, the power of that or
the democratization of that seems like
>> Yeah. very useful and also healthy.
>> Yeah. I think basically by accident
we're actually like in an okay spot.
>> An optimal. Yeah. [laughter] Yeah. Like
by accident we we are it happened to be
in a good spot in a certain sense. Mhm.
Um Well, and and to some degree the the
longer this endures, like this dynamic,
um the the the healthier of a spot like
the ecosystem might be in, right?
Because you have more and more area
under the curve.
>> Mhm. And I will say that even on the
closed side, I I almost feel like it's
been like even further centralizing
recently because I think a lot of the
frontrunners are like not necessarily
like the top tier. And so uh yeah, like
in that sense I think it's um it's not
super ideal. I would love there to be
more
more frontier labs because yeah, I'm
like by default very suspicious of like
um
I want there to be more people in the
room. I want I think like in machine
learning ensembles always outperform any
individual model. And so I want there to
be ensembles of people thinking about
all the hardest problems and I want
there to be ensembles of people in the
room when they um
to be all well informed and to make
those decisions, you know, so uh I don't
want it to be like a closed doors with
two people or three people. I feel like
that's like not a good not a good
future. I almost wish like there were
more labs as long as they're short and I
I I do think that open-source has a has
a
has a place to play. I hope it sticks
around and I basically I it's currently
slightly behind and it's actually kind
of like a good thing. Okay, you worked
on the precursor to generalized robotics
autonomy um in cars, right?
Uh a a lot has happened in the last
couple months with robotics companies as
well, like acceleration of really
impressive generalization of
environment, of tasks, like increasingly
long horizon tasks, lots of money going
into the space. Like, is it going to
happen? Has anything in your view
changed recently? Uh so like my view is
kind of informed by what I saw in
self-driving and I do feel like
self-driving is the first robotics
application. So probably what I saw is
at the time, like 10 years ago, there
were a large number of startups. And I
kind of feel like um
like most of them basically like didn't
long-term make it. Um and what I saw is
that like a lot of capital expenditure
had to go in and a lot of time. And so
um I think it's like I think robotics,
because it's so difficult, is so messy,
and requires a huge amount of capital
investment, and a lot of like
conviction.
Um just it's like a big problem and I
think atoms are really hard. So I kind
of feel like they will lag be it will
lag behind what's going to happen in
digital space. And in digital space
there's going to be a huge amount of
unhobbling, uh basically like things
that weren't super efficient becoming a
lot more efficient by like a factor of a
hundred.
>> Mhm. Because bits are so much easier.
And so I think currently in terms of
what's going to change and
like where the activity is, I kind of
feel like digital space is going to like
change a huge amount. And then the
physical space will lag behind. And what
I find very interesting is like this
interface in between them as well.
Because I think in this like if you we
do have more agents acting on behalf of
humans and more agents kind of like
talking to each other and and doing
tasks and participating in kind of
economy of agents, etc. Um you're going
to run out of things that you're going
to do purely in the digital space. At
some point you have to go to the
universe and you have to ask it
questions. Um you have to run an
experiment and see what the universe
tells you to get back to learn
something. And so we currently have a
huge amount of like digital work uh
because there's an overhang in how much
we collectively thought about what
already is digital.
So we just didn't have enough thinking
cycles among the humans to think about
all the information that is already
digital and already uploaded. Um and so
we're going to start running out of
stuff that is actually like um
already up uploaded. Uh so you're going
to at some point read all the papers and
process them and have some ideas about
what to try, but um yeah, we're just
going to
uh I don't actually know how much you
can like get intelligence that's like
fully closed off and was just
information that's available in the you
know. And so I think what's going to
happen is first there's going to be a
huge amount of unhobbling and I think
there's a huge amount of work there.
Then actually it's going to move to like
the interfaces between physical and
digital. So I and that's like sensors of
like seeing the world and actuators of
like doing something to the world.
>> Mhm. So I think a lot of interesting
companies will actually come from that
interface of like can we feed the
superintelligence in a certain sense uh
data and can we actually like take data
out and manipulate the physical world um
per its bidding if you want to like
anthropomorphize the whole thing, right?
And then the the physical world actually
I almost feel like the the total
addressable market, etc. in terms of
like the amount of work and so on is is
massive, possibly even much larger maybe
what can happen in digital space. So
actually think it's like a much bigger
opportunity as well. But um
I do feel like it's a huge amount of
work and and in my in my mind the atoms
are just like a a million times harder.
So um so it will lag behind, but it's
also I think a little bit of a bigger
market. So it's kind of like uh yeah, I
think the opportunity is kind of like
follow that kind of trajectory. So right
now is digital is like my main interest.
Then interfaces will be like after that
and then maybe like some of the physical
things um like their time will come and
they'll be huge when they do come.
Well, it's it's it's an interesting
framework for it, too, because uh
certain things, not the things I'm
working on right now, but certain things
are much easier even in the world of
atoms.
>> Mhm. Right? Like if you just think about
like read and write to the physical
world, like read, like sensors, cameras,
like there's a lot of existing hardware
and you can imagine like
enriching agent capabilities or
capturing a lot of new data if you just
clever about it and like you don't
necessarily have to invest a lot to like
get something valuable.
>> Yeah. Right. Yeah. So like examples of
this that I saw for example are, you
know, um a friend of mine, Liam, is
running is a CEO of Periodic. I
visited them last week. Yeah. So it was
just on top of mind. Like they're trying
to do auto research for materials
science. Mhm. Um and so in that case
it's like the sensors to the
intelligence are actually like pretty
expensive lab equipment. And the same is
true in biology. I think a lot of people
are very interested in engineering
biology and, you know, the sensors will
be more than just like video cameras.
Does that make sense? And then the other
thing I was I saw for example is
companies that are trying to have um
like you basically pay people for
training data. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> To feed the Yeah.
>> programmatically.
>> Yeah. To feed to feed the Borg. Uh
um and so like these are all examples of
like sensors in a certain sense. So they
take many diverse shapes and forms if
that makes sense. Mhm. Yeah, so I'm
looking forward to the point where I can
ask for a task in the physical world and
I can put a price on it and just tell
the agent like, you know, you figure out
how to do it. Go get the data.
>> I'm actually kind of surprised we don't
have enough like information markets.
Mhm. Like if for example if Polymarket
or other betting markets or even stocks,
etc. If they have so much autonomous
activity and rising amount of activity,
Mhm. like um
why should like for example if Iran was
just happening now, like how come there
isn't a process where like taking a
photo or video from somewhere in Tehran
should cost like 10 bucks? Like someone
should be able to pay for that, you
know, like and that's an example of like
feeding the intelligence. There's not
going to be a human looking at it, it's
going to be like agents who are trying
to guess the betting games and stock
markets and so on. Mhm. So I kind of
feel like the agentic web is still like
fairly new, but there's no like
mechanisms for this, but this is an
example of what I I think might happen.
Uh there's a good book that maybe is
inspiring called Daemon. Mhm. You
potentially read it. In Daemon, the
intelligence um
ends up like puppeteering almost a
little bit like humanity in a certain
sense, you know? And so, humans are kind
of like it's actuators, but humans are
also like its sensors. Um and so, I
think like collectively like society
will kind of like reshape in a certain
way in uh
to to serve that kind of a
that will kind of like end up happening
collectively across the industry. Where
yeah, there's just a lot more automation
and it has certain needs and kind of
humans will be serving those needs of
that of that machine, not necessarily
like to each other.
>> Well, we were um on this very specific
point of uh like missing pieces of
training data. We needed um we needed
something like auto research, right?
Like we we need the training cycle or
the SFTP piece to be uh
far more mechanized. Mhm. For for which
part?
>> In order to make the
uh collection like to in order to take
the human out of the loop to ask for a
task that is just like improve my model
quality with new data, right? Uh yes.
Does that make sense to you? Like we um
if you can't have the model do the
training runs by itself, then your
ability to do this as a like closed loop
task with uh by pricing data is um more
challenged. Yes, yes, 100%. Yeah. But
now you do.
>> The thing is for LLM training, it
actually is like very easily it like
really fits the paradigm. Mhm. Um so,
you'd actually expect
>> metric. Yeah, like LLM training actually
fits the paradigm really well, really
easily. Like all the optimization of all
the code and so, it runs faster. And
then you also have like metrics that you
can optimize against. I do think that if
you had an autonomous loop over those
metrics, there's going to be a lot of
like good herding going on where the
system will like overfit to those
metrics. And so, um but then you can use
the system to devise more metrics and
you just have a really good coverage.
So, it's kind of hard to tell, but um
in a certain sense it's like a pretty
pretty good fit. I want to talk about a
little uh
tiny side project you have before we
end. Um tell me about the micro GPT
arts. Oh, yeah.
Okay, so micro GPT. So, I have this like
running obsession of like maybe a decade
or two of just like simplifying and
boiling down the uh basically LLMs uh to
like their bare essence. And I've had a
number of projects along these lines.
So, like nano GPT and um make more and
uh micro GPT micro grad etc. So, I feel
like micro GPT is now the state of the
art of me trying to like just boil it
down to just the essence. Because the
thing is like training neural nets and
LLMs specifically um is a huge amount of
code, but all of that code is actually
complexity from efficiency. It's just
because you need it to go fast. If you
don't need it to go fast and you just
care about the algorithm, then that
algorithm actually is uh 200 lines of
Python, very simple to read. And this
includes comments and everything. Um
because you just have like uh your data
set which is a text um and you need your
neural network architecture which is
like 50 lines. You need to do your
forward pass and then you have to do
your backward pass to calculate the
gradients. And so, an auto grad engine
uh to calculate the gradients like 100
lines. And then you need an optimizer
and Adam for example, uh which is a very
state of the art optimizer is like again
10 lines, really. And so, putting
everything together in the training loop
is like yeah, 200 lines. And what's
interesting to me like normally before
like maybe a year ago or more, if I had
come up with micro GPT, I would be
tempted to basically explain to people.
Like I have a video like stepping
through it or something like that. Uh
and I actually tried to make that video
a little bit. And I tried to make like a
little guide to it and so on. But I kind
of realized that this is is not really
is not really adding too much because
people cuz it's already so simple that
it's 200 lines that anyone could ask
their agent to explain it in various
ways. And the agents like I'm not
explaining to people anymore. I'm
explaining it to agents. If you can
explain it to agents, then agents can be
the router and they can actually target
it to the human in their language uh
with infinite uh you know,
patience and uh just at their capability
and so on. Right. If I don't understand
um this particular function, I can ask
the agent to explain it to me like three
different ways and I'm not going to get
that from you. Exactly. And so, I kind
of feel like, you know, what is
education? Like it used to be guides, it
used to be lectures, it used to be this
thing, but now I feel like now more I'm
explaining things to agents and maybe
I'm coming up with skills uh where like
um
uh so, basically skill is just a way to
instruct the agent how to teach the
thing. So, maybe I could have a skill
for micro GPT of the progression I
imagine the agent should take you
through if you're interested in
understanding the code base. And it's
just like hints to the model to like uh
first start off with this and then with
that. And so, I could just script the
curriculum a little bit as a skill.
Uh so,
uh so, I I don't feel like um
yeah, I feel like there's going to be
less of like explaining things directly
to people and it's going to be more of
just like does the agent get it? And if
the agent gets it, they'll do the
explanation. And we're not fully there
yet because they I still can I still
think I can probably explain things a
little bit better than the agents, but I
still feel like the models are improving
so rapidly that um
I feel like it's a losing battle to some
to some extent.
Um and so, I think education is going to
be kind of like reshuffled by this quite
substantially uh where it's the end of
like teaching each other things a little
bit like if I have a um library for
example of code or something like that.
It used to be that you have
documentation for other people who are
going to use your library, but like you
shouldn't do that anymore. Like you
should have instead of HTML documents
for humans, you have markdown documents
for agents. Cuz if agents get it, then
they can just explain all the different
parts of it. So, it's this redirection
through agents, you know?
Um and that's why. So, I think we're
going to see a lot more of that playing
out. Well, we'll see if the great
teachers know like to develop intuition
for how to explain things to agents
differently.
>> ultimately, so for example, micro GPT,
like I asked I tried to get an agent to
write micro GPT. So, I told it like try
to boil down the simplest things. Like
try to boil down my um neural network
training to the simplest thing and it
can't do it. Like micro GPT is like my
is it's like my end of my obsession.
It's the 200 lines. I thought about this
for a long time. I was obsessed about
this for a long time. This is this is
the solution. Trust me, it can't get
simpler. And this is this is my value
add. Everything else like agent gets it.
It just can't come up with it, but it
totally gets it and understands why it's
done in a certain way etc. Uh so, like
my contribution is kind of like these
few bits, but everything else in terms
of like the education that goes on after
that is like not my domain anymore.
So, maybe
yeah, it's like education kind of
changes in those ways where you kind of
have to infuse the few bits that you
feel strongly about the curriculum or
the the best the better way of
explaining it or something like that.
The things that agents can't do is your
job now. The things that agents can do,
they can probably do better than you or
like very soon. And so, you should um be
strategic about what you're actually
spending time on. Well, we appreciate
the few bits.
Thank you, Andre.
Okay.
Find us on Twitter at No Priors Pod.
>> [music]
>> Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. [music] That way you get a
new episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-priors.com.